

Description

Overview

Second edition of the bestselling book on Machine Learning
A practical approach to key frameworks in data science, machine learning, and deep learning
Use the most powerful Python libraries to implement machine learning and deep learning
Get to know the best practices to improve and optimize your machine learning systems and algorithms

Objectives

Understand the key frameworks in data science, machine learning, and deep learning
Harness the power of the latest Python open source libraries in machine learning
Master machine learning techniques using challenging real-world data
Master deep neural network implementation using the TensorFlow library
Ask new questions of your data through machine learning models and neural networks
Learn the mechanics of classification algorithms to implement the best tool for the job
Predict continuous target outcomes using regression analysis
Uncover hidden patterns and structures in data with clustering
Delve deeper into textual and social media data using sentiment analysis

About

Machine learning is eating the software world, and now deep learning is extending machine learning. Understand and work at the cutting edge of machine learning, neural networks, and deep learning with this second edition of Sebastian Raschka’s bestselling book, Python Machine Learning. Thoroughly updated using the latest Python open source libraries, this book offers the practical knowledge and techniques you need to create and contribute to machine learning, deep learning, and modern data analysis.

Fully extended and modernized, Python Machine Learning Second Edition now includes the popular TensorFlow deep learning library. The scikit-learn code has also been fully updated to include recent improvements and additions to this versatile machine learning library.

Sebastian Raschka and Vahid Mirjalili’s unique insight and expertise introduce you to machine learning and deep learning algorithms from scratch, and show you how to apply them to practical industry challenges using realistic and interesting examples. By the end of the book, you’ll be ready to meet the new data analysis opportunities in today’s world.

If you’ve read the first edition of this book, you’ll be delighted to find a new balance of classical ideas and modern insights into machine learning. Every chapter has been critically updated, and there are new chapters on key technologies. You’ll be able to learn and work with TensorFlow more deeply than ever before, and get essential coverage of the Keras neural network library, along with the most recent updates to scikit-learn.


Table of Contents

01.  Giving Computers the Ability to Learn from Data

02.  Training Simple Machine Learning Algorithms for Classification

03.  A Tour of Machine Learning Classifiers Using scikit-learn

04.  Building Good Training Sets – Data Preprocessing

05.  Compressing Data via Dimensionality Reduction

06.  Learning Best Practices for Model Evaluation and Hyperparameter Tuning

07.  Combining Different Models for Ensemble Learning

08.  Applying Machine Learning to Sentiment Analysis

09.  Embedding a Machine Learning Model into a Web Application

10.  Predicting Continuous Target Variables with Regression Analysis

11.  Working with Unlabeled Data – Clustering Analysis

12.  Implementing a Multilayer Artificial Neural Network from Scratch

13.  Parallelizing Neural Network Training with TensorFlow

14.  Going Deeper – The Mechanics of TensorFlow

15.  Classifying Images with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks

16.  Modeling Sequential Data Using Recurrent Neural Networks

AA.  Appendix A: Index

